# Graphs

A graph is a collection of waypoints (nodes) and edges that are connecting
the nodes. Edges can be directed (one way) or undirected (both directions possible) and weighted (the costs factor for
this road, e.g. resembling steepness or vehicle type). The weight is multiplied with the length of the road.

To set up your PathFinder, you want to create mentioned nodes for each corner or crossing of your map and connect them
with roads (edges) of the according direction and weight. Players can later search for keywords that are associated with
certain nodes and the plugin can calculate the absolute shortest path from the players position to the target node.

Of course, this shortest path can then be visualized with particles and entities.

# Nodes

Nodes are, as mentioned, the basis of the graph. By themselves they cannot do much. They have
- an autogenerated numeric ID.
- a location value that tells, where in the 3D world of Minecraft they are. This can vary over time, but visualized graphs are static and will not updated once generated.
- one according roadmap. Its 1 to n, each node can only be part of one roadmap.
- an unlimited amount of edges to other nodes (not including itself)
- an unlimited amount of NodeGroups, which add behaviour to nodes.

# NodeGroups

## The NodeGroup Object

NodeGroups are, simply put, pretty much what they claim to be. An object that groups multiple nodes.
In terms of the PathFinder plugin, NodeGroups are the way to assign any logic to nodes.
A group does not do anything on its own. It only consists of a NamespacedKey (see next chapter for a detailed explanation),
a weight value and of course a set of nodes.

### The weight value
As already explained, groups will add logic to nodes. Since a node can have multiple groups that try
to apply the same logic with different parameters, a group has a weight attribute to specify its priority when applying logic.
The higher the weight, the more preferred the group.

### Modifiers
A group can have modifiers, which will be used to apply logic to nodes. Let me explain this with an example.
There could be a modifier "SearchableModifier", which allows all nodes of the group, to be searchable.
Of course, search terms must be applied for a node to be searchable, which makes search terms the attributes of the
SearchableModifier.

To explain this a bit further, let me demonstrate the structure of a group in text form:

<pre>
NodeGroup{
    key="pathfinder:example",
    weight=1,
    modifiers={
        "pathfinder:searchable"= SearchableModifier{
            searchterms=["parking_lot","parking"]
        }
    }
}
</pre>

## Namespaces and Namespaced Keys

NodeGroups are, like many other objects of the plugin, identified by a unique Namespaced Key. This is a format that minecraft
uses in many places, like with materials: `minecraft:diamond`.

NodeGroups usually have a key that starts with the namespace 'pathfinder' and finishes with a custom name, given by the
creator, like `pathfinder:yard`
To assure that addons for the pathfinder plugin don't conflict with your existing data, they have to register
their own data with their own according namespace. So the namespace can be used to identify which addon created a
group.

So if you ever stumble across PathFinder data, that starts with a different namespace than `pathfinder:`, it most certainly
comes from an addon for the plugin.

::: warning
Choose the key of your roadmap carefully, it cannot be changed later on.
It will not be visible to players.
:::
